# Bill Buster App

### Description
An app to help you keep track of all your bills, get a snapshot of your finances, and store your billing statements. 

Bill Buster is a mobile friendly app that allows users to log in to their virtual filing system. Users can input their billing information for any type that they may have, add and store picture copies of their statements, and get a quick look at the spread of their finances from the pie chart generated by their input data. Users must log in to be able to view their information. All routes beyond the landing page are protected. Bill Buster is designed to make managing your finances simpler and more comprehensive, without all the clutter.

Heroku deploy link: https://secret-forest-89842.herokuapp.com/

### Running The App
* Clone the repo
* install mysql
* cd into the repo
```
npm install
cd client
npm install
cd ..
export DB_PASS="{whatever your password for mysql is}"
nodemon start
```
* in a different terminal
```
cd into the repo
cd client
npm start
```
* This project uses Sequelize, and running it involves installing the sequelize-cli and mysql2 packages stored globally

```
npm install -g sequelize-cli mysql2
```

* To run the sequelize migrations and the seeder file, cd into the root folder:
```
sequelize db:migrate
sequelize db:seed:all
```

### App Information
Bill Buster uses GET and POST routes to handle data on a Express server connected to a mySQL database using a Sequelize ORM. It also sends GET and POST requests to Auth0's API in order to get and update private user information. Rendering of the app is handled by React and react-boostrap. Bills Buster is built using CRUD and MVP practices and is an example of a full stack MERN app.

Because this project delt with sensitive and private information, we largely focused on building an app with protected routes, both on the front end and back end. By using Auth0, users cannot view their data unless logged in, and all api requests require an authorization header with a JSON web token specifically issued to a user when logged in. Passwords to our local databases and API calls are stored as ENV.

### Technologies (found in our package-json files)
- Body-Parser
- Chart.js and react-chartjs-2 
- Express
- MySQL2
- Nodemon
- Auth0
- JWT
- Axios
- Sequelize
- Sequelize-Cli
- React
- React-boostrap
- Morgan
- express-jwt
- express-jwt-authz
- jwks-rsa

### Developers

* John Waymire
* Lina Kichen
* Ryan McKenzie

1. Lina Kichen 
- Database set up with mySQL and Sequelize (models, migrations, associations)
- User authentication and route protection
- API routes for users, protected routes for App 
- User controllers 
- Landing, Profile, and ProfileForm pages and corresponding components
- Original app framework design and idea
- Initial setup of repo structure
- Heroku deployment

2. John:  
- Overall app styling
- Front to back-end functionality for updating expenses and building subseqent pie chart
- Logo design 
- Final app framework mock-ups (check out the sweet designs in our [docs](https://github.com/hkichen/BillsApp/blob/master/docs/index.md) folder!)
- API requests to update expenses to database
- Dashboard and AddExpense pages with corresponding components

### Components and Tasks
Each developer handled separate components of the app.

1. Lina: Database set up with mySQL and Sequelize (models, migrations, associations) Landing page with login and signup pages (front to back end functionality), user authentication

2. John:  Home page rendering that displays pie chart, forms for adding/updating bill categories and handling those changes to the database, logo design, app theme

3. Ryan: 
- creating the interaction inside of each bill category and the add statement form 
- handling statement submission to database, 
- setting up functionality to access computer/phone camera to take photos
- storing images in database

### Future Features
1. Currently we have predefined bill categories that the user has access to, but we would like to allow users to create their own categories and store specific statements pertenant to it. This is especially useful for our Utilities category, which currenly stores many types of utility bills. This feature would definitely give the user more control over how they want to store their information. This would also make rendering of the pie chart more accurate as well.
 
2. Allow user to change their email and password.

3. Display statements that have been uploaded and stored in the database.



